[Vectorize] Update Vectorize Dev Docs according to V2 Spec (#16409)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/vectorize/reference/transition-vectorize-legacy.mdx

---
title: Transition legacy Vectorize indexes
pcx_content_type: concept
sidebar:
  order: 8
---

Legacy Vectorize (V1) indexes are on a deprecation path as of Aug 15, 2024. Your Vectorize index may be a legacy index if it fulfills any of the follwing crieria:

1. Was created with a Wrangler version lower than `v3.71.0`.
2. Was created using the "--deprecated-v1" flag enabled.

> 3. Was created using the legacy [REST API](</api/operations/vectorize-(-deprecated)-create-vectorize-index>).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Was created using the legacy [REST API](/api/operations/vectorize-(-deprecated)-create-vectorize-index).
```

1. The new Vectorize (V2) indexes now support asynchronous mutations. Any vector inserts or deletes, and metadata index creation or deletes may take a few seconds to be reflected.

2. Vectorize (V2) support metadata and namespace filtering for much larger indexes with significantly lower latencies. However, the fields on which metadata filtering can be applied need to be specified before vectors are inserted. Refer to the [metadata index creation](/vectorize/reference/client-api/#create-metadata-index) page for more details.

3. Vectorize (V2) [query operation](/vectorize/reference/client-api/#query-vectors) now supports the ability to search for and return up to 100 most similar vectors.

4. Vectorize (V2) query operations provide a more granular control for querying metadata along with vectors. Refer to the [query operation](/vectorize/reference/client-api/#query-vectors) page for more details.

5. Vectorize (V2) expands the Vectorize capabilities that are available via Wrangler (with Wrangler version > `v3.71.0`).

## Transition

:::note[Automated Migration]

> Watch this space for the upcoming capability to migrate legacy (V1) indexes to the new Vectorize (V2) indexes automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Watch [the changelog](/vectorize/platform/changelog/) for the upcoming capability to migrate legacy (V1) indexes to the new Vectorize (V2) indexes automatically.
```
